Welcome back to the advanced course in
Tableau by now we're getting very
comfortable with working with sets we've
done a couple of tutorials on them and
we've already learned even how to
combine sets to achieve results like that.
And today we're going to learn how to
use parameters to control our set.
It's going to be quite a powerful
combination when you put those two
together and we're going to start by
remembering about that said that we
created a while ago for growth. So here
it is the dynamic set that we created,
top start ups by growth dynamic set and
as you recall we even apply to our tree
map so here as we change the set the
tree map changes. So how about we go and
create a parameter that will allow the
user to change the set so right now in
order to change the specification of the
set, we have to go into edit set and we
have to set the value over here. But now
we'll create a parameter so the user
will be able to toggle it over here and
adjust that set, so let's go ahead and do
that. We're going to right click here and
select create a parameter and we're
going to call this parameter growth
leaders. So that's how many we want to
look at and we'll get a current value of
10 and of course not float it's an
integer so it's a whole number, display
automatic so I want to give it a range,
so let's say the person that's looking
at this dashboard can say that this
parameter can range from 5 all the way
up to a hundred and four natural step of
one, so if we click OK.
I know as you can see we have less space
because I knew tab has appeared here with
parameters and let's go ahead and put
this parameter onto our sheet and we
will click show parameter control so
here the person can change the parameter
but as you can see for now it does
absolutely nothing because it's not
connected to anything. Let's connect it to
our set,
so this is the center connecting to the
dynamic set
and we'll click edit set and in the top
here instead of a number
we're going to select our parameter. Here
it is growth leaders, click apply
ok and as you can see right away
everything is changing so as we change
the parameter we are able to control our
visualization. The number of leaders that
are being displayed as you can see the
minimum is five, the maximum is a hundred
and this controls our tree map. We're not
going to worry about the fact that the
tree map formatting is affected by the
number of growth. It is that we select
because that's not going to be our
concern. Our main focus was that now we
are controlling, we have a parameter that
can control this set with and now we're
going to go ahead and create parameters
that will control our other two sets
which reason the scatterplot and those
are the high revenue and low expensive
sets. So let's go ahead and create those
parameters. Parameter this one we'll call
our revenue cut off and we'll give it a
current value doesn't really matter
let's give it a current value of 10
million as it is right now and we won't
touch that for now so range minimum,
maximum you can get these from a field
so if you click set from field and
select 2015 revenue they will populate
automatically you just change this one to 0
and also we don't want to be a flawed
because nobody's going to specify up to a
decimal points that kind of level so
we'll just change it to an integer, just
for aesthetics and we'll click OK and
also we will create a perimeter this
time for expenses so we'll call it
expenses cut off. This one will be
we'll set it at five million and range
once again minimum maximum we'll set it
from my field 2015 expenses put this to 0
and then changes this to integer.
Okay so that looks good, now let's embed
these parameters into our set and this
is actually going to be a bit different
and I'll show you why. So if I click and
it's set for high revenue you'll recall
that we didn't use the top tab, we
actually the condition and in the
condition you can't select a parameter
here.
So what we need to do is we need to
create a formula. And the formulas here
are very simple so just make sure you
don't type in if or anything like
that, because that will just complicate the
form or what you need to put in here is
expression that you would normally put
inside and if. So whatever you would
normally put in here, that's what you
need to type in the formula and it's
like a specific thing how these
conditions inside sets work. So let's
type it in. We want to check that 2015, let's
type in revenue, better 2015 revenue is
greater than revenue cut off and you'll
see that it errors out right away for us
because I didn't put an aggregation.
Let's put an aggregation here, because it
doesn't really matter for us in this
particular case for us because we're
working this set is created the most
granular level at the level of ID. This
aggregation will be equal to the value
under under lying it but in other cases
you will need an aggregation so that's
why it's asking for one and you don't
need an aggregation for parameter so
once you click apply,
you've got that set modified and if we
do the revenue cut off and we show
proper control. Now if we move it around, as
you can see our visualization adjusts.
That's perfect, that's exactly what we
want
and finally what we want is a parameter
for our expenses. So let's edit the set
here and by the way you might want to
pause this video just to practice and do
it yourself and see how I did it but
otherwise all we have to do is just type
in sum and then expenses 2015. This time
is gonna have to be of course less
than
expenses cut off and if we click apply, click
OK and then we show parameter control, now
if we talk about this one as you can see
once again we're changing our
visualization on the fly which is very
very powerful. So that's all, that's how
you create parameters to control your
sets as you can see it's a useful tool
that you now have in your arsenal
we're working with Tableau and in the
next tutorial we're going to finally
take it to the next level.
We're going to put all this together and
create a wonderful-looking dashboard and
I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then, happy analyzing.